# Critters-NEW
Note: This was a programming assignment completed for my introduction to programming course. I created the Ant, Bird, Vulture, Hippo, and Longhorn classes, but the Critter class which these other classes extend and the CritterMain class that actually runs the simulation with all of the different types of Critter objects were not created by me and were provided for me as part of the assignment.

The goal of this assignment was to complete a set of classes that define the behavior of various animals (Critters). The actual program (CritterMain) is a graphical simulation of a two dimensional world with different types of Critters moving around on it. The Critters move, eat, and fight in various ways.

The Critter class contains multiple methods that needed to be overwritten. When a critter encounters food (represented by a "." in the simulation) the eat method is called and will return true if the critter will eat the food and false otherwise. After an critter eats it will automatically fall asleep for a short period of time and if it encounters a critter of another species and gets into a fight it will automatically lose and die. When two critters of different species move to the same space on the grid, they fight and the fight method is called and will return which attack choice the critter makes (roar, pounce, scratch, or forfeit). However, if two critters of the same species move onto the same space on the grid, they will mate (critters only mate once). But, if two critters encounter another criter of a different species while they are mating and get into a fight, they will both lose and die. Everytime a critter moves, the getMove method is called and return which direction the critter should move in (North, East, South, West, or Center). Each critter is represented on the grid by a colored character. The getColor method returns the critter's color and the toString method return the character that represents the critter. As the CritterMain simulation is ran, each type of critter gains points for the amount of food eaten, the number of remaining critters of that species, and the number of fights that species has won. The only species that was required to always win was the Longhorn and I was allowed to create the Longhorn class however I wanted, but it had to be creative and strategic so the Longhorn species would always win.

Ant: If an Ant object was created with a true walkSouth parameter, it will move in a repeating S, E, S, E, ... pattern, and if not it will move in a N, E, N, E, ... repeating patter. An ant will always return scratch as its attack choice and will always return true when it lands on food. An ant is represented by a red perecentage sign (%) on the grid.

Bird: If a bird's opponent is an ant it will return roar as its attack choice and pounce otherwise, and a bird will always return false when it lands on food. A bird moves in a clockwise square pattern: first goes north 3 times, then east 3 times, then south 3 times, then west 3 times, then repeats. A bird's color is always blue, but its character changes based on the last direction the bird moved in: "^" if the bird's last move was north or it has not moved, ">" if the bird's last move was east, "V" if the bird's last move was south, or "<" if the bird's last move was west.

Hippo: A hippo object is created with an integer parameter (can only be integers from 0 to 9 because the toString method must return a single character), which indicates the total number of times a hippo can eat in its lifetime. Everytime a hippo eats, its "hungry" number is reduced by one and it is considered to be no longer hungry when its hungry number is zero. When a hippo fights, if it is still hungry it will return scratch, otherwise it will return pounce. When a hippo lands on food, if it is still hungry it will return true to eat and its hungry number will be reduced by one, otherwise it will return false. A hippo's string representation is the number of times left a hippo can eat and a hippo's color is gray if it is still hungry and white otherwise. A hippo moves in a random direction (north, south, east, or west) for five steps and then picks another random direction to move in for five steps and so on.

Vultue: If a vulture's opponent is an ant it will return roar as its attack choice and pounce otherwise. A vulture moves in a clockwise square pattern: first goes north 3 times, then east 3 times, then south 3 times, then west 3 times, then repeats. A vulture's color is always black, but its character changes based on the last direction the bird moved in: "^" if the bird's last move was north or it has not moved, ">" if the bird's last move was east, "V" if the bird's last move was south, or "<" if the bird's last move was west. When a vulture object is created it is hungry and it will remain hungry until it eats. Once a vulture eats it is no longer hungry until it gets into a fight. After a fight, a vulture is hungry until it eats again. If a vulture lands on food and is hungry it will return true, otherwise it will return false.

Longhorn: I made the Longhorn class triumph in the simulation by using the fact that it knows what some of its opponents are and can check its surroundings. A Longhorn disguises itself on the game board as an ant by having its String equal a percentage sign (%), which is also the String of an ant. When a Longhorn collides with an opponent and fights, if the opponent is known (stone, ant, bird, hippo, or vulture), then the Longhorn will choose an attack against the known opponent that will guarantee it a win. However, if the opponent is unknown, then the method will return pounce because the Longhorn is disguised as an ant, so assuming that the unknown critter attacks using roar to counter a regular ant's scratch attack, then the Longhorn will win by attacking with pounce to counter a roar attack. Also, when a Longhorn is moving, if its neighbor is known (stone, bird, hippo, vulture, or food), then it moves toward it (a Longhorn will only intentionally move toward another Longhorn or ant object if it has not mated yet because otherwise it will get stuck in one place next to an object with the same String representation as itself), so that it can earn points from a guaranteed win in a fight, from creating a new Longhorn by mating, or from eating food (based on the condition that there is no other critter next to the Longhorn), and if there is no known object next to it or if the the object is an ant or another Longhorn and it has already mated, then the Longhorn will move in a random direction so that it does not have a predictable movement pattern. Furthermore, because a critter falls asleep after it eats and will automatically lose in a fight while its asleep, when a Longhorn lands on food, it will first check to see if there are any other critters next to it, and if there is not then it will eat the food so it is less likely to be killed while it is asleep. I also added some fun and creativity to the Longhorn class by making the color and String representing a Longhorn object change based on the different states it experienced. When a Longhorn is first created, it will be represented by a white percentage sign (%) on the game board. While a Longhorn is mating, it will turn pink and the percentage sign will become a capital X. After a Longhorn mates, its String will go back to its original value (%) and it will go from being white to being UT orange so it is easy to keep track of which Longhorns have mated and which haven't since each critter can only mate once. Lastly, when a Longhorn falls asleep, the percentage sign will become a capital Z, and a white Longhorn will become light purple and a UT orange Longhorn will become dark purple. After a Longhorn wakes up, it will go back to its original String and color.
